This is one of multiple videos discussing a three switching in a previous video I showed you how to
configure the switch into villans rotting.
I demonstrated how to configure multiple interfaces in different villans and then enable layer 3 functionality
on the switch to allow it to rot from one villain to another.
Another function of a 3 switch is to run routing protocols.
So in this example what I'll do is connect the two switches together on gigabit one slushes zero and
will enable a rotting protocol between these two switches.
In addition I'll bring up the PC into the topology and in this example we'll put the PC into a separate
V LAN what also do is make the ports between the switches routed ports rather than switch ports.
So this link will act as a routed link.
In other words least three link rather than a lead to link all start up the additional switch and all
configure the third PC with an IP address.
And let's say the 1 9 2 1 6 8 0 subnet and click save and I'll start that PC up I'll open up a console
to the new switch.
As well as the new PC.
So the second switch will take a while to boot.
Wallet's booting I'll configure the first switch in the topology
so on the first switch interface gigabit one slashes.
I'm going to use the kimonos switch port to make this a routed port.
The interface has come up now because the other switch has booted all configure an IP address on this
port in the 10 1 10 0 0 range.
So notice now show IP interface brief does port X differently to the other ports to port.
So we have the IP address shown directly on the interface
on the second switch hostname switch to Gigabit zero one needs to be configured as a routed port
so interface gigabit.
Once slashes zero no switch port IP address tendered one that tended to
pain tended one to 10 to up 1 which is switch 1.
So switch to pings which one show the land brief switch to currently only has field one or create another
villain let's say the last 20 or let's create one called movieland 192 and then I'll create an s vi
of what I need to reconfigure this PC with a default gateway of 1 9 2 1 6 8 0 1 so IP address 1 on 2
1 6 8 0 1 slushed 24.
And I need to know shut that is vi.
So show IP interface brief.
We've now got the IP address configured on an S-5 192 but we need to put the physical interface into
that LAN so show IP interface brief as vi is configured.
The interface has been configured in Villano a hundred ninety two and we can prove that by doing show
interface which 00 a switch port it belongs to a hundred ninety two.
So show IP interface brief interface has now come up CPC PC 3 now should be able to ping switch to which
it can but these PCs over here will not be able to ping this PC and vice versa until we enable a routing
protocol between the switches so on switch one enable the GOP and simply enable it on all interfaces
and disable automatic summarization I'll do something very similar on switch to enable UI.
GOP needs to be an autonomous system 100 in other words the same autonomous system as the other router
and disable order summarization.
We can see that a neighbor relationship is established.
So switch to has an inside job the neighbor relationship with switch one switch to should have learnt
about routes from switch one which it has learnt about network 10 1 2 0 3 0 4 0 and 5 0 which are the
subnets on these Villani interfaces we can see that by using the command show IP interface brief notice
the IP addresses on the sci's they were advertised through the GOP and switched to has learnt that.
So in this typology now PC three should now be able to ping PC to as an example to his PC three Kennet
paying $10 1.5 to one.
Yes it can.
What about PC 1 which is 10 1 to 1.
To a trace route to 10 1 to 1.
What we should see is that it hits switch to which it does then it should hit switch 1 which it does
and then it should get to the destination which is PC 1 which it does.
So that's an example of how you configure layer 3 switches with routing protocols to allow Roths to
be advertised from one layer 3 switch to another.
Hope you enjoyed this video if it's been a benefit to you please like it please subscribe to my YouTube
channel.
I wish you all the very best.